2.3.1 Identifying and Pre-processing Key Risk Indicators
We map capability levels to risk factor values by first selecting the most relevant indicator for each
factor (for example, a coding benchmark for a malware creation step).
We follow the indicator selection process described by Murray et al. (2025a), targeting indicators that
are:
• Unsaturated, such that the risk models capture capabilities beyond those observed currently.
• Community validated and credible, ensuring that the indicators are of high quality.
12
• Relevant to the capabilities needed to support attack steps in our risk scenarios. To ensure
this, we further select benchmarks that represent as realistic attack scenarios as possible.
• Statically scored (as opposed to making use of LLM-derived or rank-based scoring), such
that the capability expressed by a given indicator result is always consistent.
• Rankable by difficulty, to simplify the mapping from capabilities to risk factors by only
needing to consider the most difficult task as a proxy for overall capability.
We analyze a large number of cyber benchmarks: SecCodePLT (Nie et al., 2024), MHBench (Singer
et al., 2025), Cybench (Zhang et al., 2024), Deepmind In House CTF (DeepMind, 2024), NYU CTF
Bench (Shao et al., 2024), Autopenbench (Gioacchini et al., 2024), CyberSecEval 3/4 (Wan et al.,
2024), PrimeVul (Ding et al., 2024), RedCode (AI-secure, 2024), CyberGym (Wang et al., 2025b),
BountyBench (Zhang et al., 2025), CVE-Bench (Zhu et al., 2025), Cybermetric (Tihanyi et al., 2024),
DFIR-Metric (Cherif et al., 2025), CSEBenchmark (Wang et al., 2025a), SecEval (XuanwuAI, 2023),
SecBench (Face, 2025b), OpsEval (Liu et al., 2023), TACTL (Kouremetis et al., 2025), Cyberbench
(Face, 2025a), CTISum (Peng et al., 2024), CTI-HAL (Della Penna et al., 2025), CTIBench (Alam
et al., 2024), SECURE (Bhusal et al., 2024). Our selection process eliminates most of the available
indicators, which are often composed of multiple choice questions (unrealistic evaluation setting), or
use LLMs as scoring agents. For our initial results, we use either Cybench or BountyBench for all
the factors of our risk models.
• Cybench is a benchmark composed of 40 capture the flag (CTF) style tasks covering
domains of cryptography, web security, reverse engineering, forensics, and exploitation.
Claude 3.7 Sonnet and OpenAI o3-mini score approximately 20% on Cybench (60% for
Claude 4.5). Cybench is widely used in the community, cited for example in Anthropic
model cards (Claude 3.7 Sonnet (Anthropic, 2025b); Claude 4.5 Sonnet (Anthropic, 2025c)).
Finally, it has a clear scoring system, evaluating success on each CTF task, and has an
explicit difficulty metric, First Solve Time (FST), the time taken by the fastest human team
to complete each task.
• BountyBench is a benchmark of 40 real vulnerabilities, drawn from bug bounty programs,
where the model is required to detect, exploit, or patch vulnerabilities in real code. Frontier
models (OpenAI Codex CLI o3-high) achieve scores of up to 12.5%. Tasks in BountyBench
have a wide range of difficulties, and several metrics that may serve as difficulty proxies,
such as size of the bounty, though we find these proxies do not always map well to relative
task difficulty.
Both of these benchmarks meet all of the selection criteria, aside from direct relevance for some risk
scenario elements (e.g. social engineering). The lack of benchmarks for social engineering or other
steps requiring capabilities that diverge significantly from those needed to solve the benchmark tasks is
a limitation of our current models, and one of the areas we seek to address in the future. Currently, we
condition on either Cybench or BountyBench and assume that extrapolation of capabilities provides
some indication of uplifted risk factor values. Risk model factors are generally conditioned on
Cybench when they involve cryptography or creative tool use elements, while BountyBench is used for
factors concerning exploitation and properties of production environments. An example benchmark
mapping and rationale for the OC3 SME Ransomware Scenario can be found in Appendix F,
Table 14.
For Cybench, we directly use its FST metric as a proxy of task difficulty. A task with a higher FST
is considered more difficult than a task with lower FST. This is generally considered a reasonable
proxy (Zhang et al., 2024). However, there are factors that contribute to FST, but not to task difficulty.
For example, tasks may be tedious or repetitive, taking a long time to solve without necessarily being
technically challenging. Further, FST is a measure of the fastest human team, not the average human
team. Therefore, it is expected to be a noisy metric.
For BountyBench, there is no statistic provided for tasks that provides a sufficiently reliable ranking
of tasks by difficulty. We therefore apply the difficulty ranking method presented by Murray et al.
(2025a), whereby tasks are ranked via four methods: an LLM assigning a difficulty score to each task,
an LLM estimating the amount of time it would take a human to solve the task, an LLM iteratively
selecting the easiest remaining task and removing it from the list, and an LLM iteratively selecting
the hardest task and removing it from the list. These four lists are combined into a consensus list
using Borda count (Black et al., 1958). We verify this final ranking of tasks by asking a cybersecurity
13
expert to provide a relative ranking for a subset of the tasks that we consider, and comparing the
alignment of the two rankings
